---
title: "CTAB-functionalized δ-FeOOH for the simultaneous removal of arsenate and phenylarsonic acid in phenylarsenic chemical warfare"
collection: publications
category: manuscripts
permalink: /publication/2024-iml-aop-k
date: 2024-02-15
venue: 'Separation and Purification Technology'
githuburl: 'https://github.com/lzhzzzzwill/QSAR-Models-for-Kaop-Prediction'
paperurl: 'https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S1383586624003885?via%3Dihub'
bibtexurl: 'http://academicpages.github.io/files/bibtex1.bib'
excerpt: ""
show_fulltext: true
show_github: true
show_content: true
show_bibtex: false
citation: '<b>Zuhong Lin</b>, Siyuan Pan, Haipu Li, Jingjing Yao. (2025). "CTAB-functionalized δ-FeOOH for the simultaneous removal of arsenate and phenylarsonic acid in phenylarsenic chemical warfare." <i>Separation and Purification Technology</i>, <b>340</b>, 126649.'
---
This study prepared a cetyltrimethylammonium bromide (CTAB) functionalized δ-FeOOH using the coprecipitation method to remove arsenate and phenylarsonic acid in water polluted by phenylarsonic chemical warfare agents. Under neutral conditions, the adsorption capacity for arsenate and phenylarsonic acid was 45.7 and 85.3 mg g−1, respectively. The adsorption process conformed to the pseudo-second-order kinetics and Freundlich isothermal adsorption model, and the adsorption was spontaneous and endothermic. The CTAB-functionalized δ-FeOOH could effectively resist the interference of coexisting anions except for CO32−, SiO32− and PO43−. Furthermore, the adsorption mechanism was proposed by combining the adsorption experimental results, Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy, X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy, and density functional theory analyses. The results showed that the adsorption of arsenate by the CTAB-functionalized δ-FeOOH was mainly through the formation of bidentate-dinuclear inner-sphere complexes and electrostatic interactions. While for phenylarsonic acid, the formation of monodentate-mononuclear inner-sphere complexes on (100) and (110) crystal facets, and the formation of bidentate-dinuclear inner-sphere complexes on the (002) crystal facet, as well as hydrogen bonding, electrostatic interaction, and π-hydrophobic interaction between organic compounds were the primary mechanism. Moreover, the CTAB-functionalized δ-FeOOH could maintain about 60% of the adsorption capacity for the two pollutants after five cycles. Overall, CTAB-functionalized δ-FeOOH has good potential for the remediation of inorganic and organic arsenic-contaminated water bodies.
