---
title: "Contribution of nitrogen sources to streams in mixed-use watershed varies seasonally in a temperate region"
collection: publications
category: manuscripts
permalink: /publication/2022-n
date: 2021-11-04
venue: ' Environmental Science and Pollution Research'
paperurl: 'https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s11356-021-16930-8'
bibtexurl: 'http://academicpages.github.io/files/bibtex1.bib'
excerpt: ""
show_fulltext: true
show_github: false
show_content: true
show_bibtex: false
citation: '<b>Zuhong Lin</b>, Junchi Liu, Yong Xiao, Chaojie Yu, Jinlan Zhang, Tingting Zhang. (2022). "Contribution of nitrogen sources to streams in mixed-use watershed varies seasonally in a temperate region." <i> Environmental Science and Pollution Research</i>, <b>29</b>, 20357–20369.'
---
The Beiyun river flows through a hot spot region of Beijing-Tianjin-Hebei in China that serves a majority of occupants. However, the region experiences severe nitrate pollution, posing a threat to human health due to inadequate self-purification capacity. In that context, there is an urgent need to assess nitrate levels in this region. Herein, we used δ15N-NO3, δ18O-NO3 isotopes analysis, and stable isotope analysis model to evaluate the nitrate source apportionment in the Beiyun river. A meta-analysis was then used to compare the potential similarity of nitrate sources among the Beiyun riverine watershed and other watersheds. Results of nitrate source apportionment revealed that nitrate originated from the manure and sewage (contribution rate: 89.6%), soil nitrogen (5.9%), and nitrogen fertilizer (3.9%) in the wet season. While in the dry season, nitrate mainly originated from manure and sewage (91.6%). Furthermore, different land-use types exhibited distinct nitrate compositions. Nitrate in urban and suburban areas mostly was traced from manure and sewage (90.5% and 78.8%, respectively). Notably, the different nitrate contribution in the rural-urban fringe and plant-covered areas were manure and sewage (44.3% and 32.8%), soil nitrogen (26.9% and 35.7%), nitrogen fertilizer (23.5% and 29.4%), and atmospheric deposition (5.3% and 2.0%). Through a meta-analysis, we found nitrogen fertilizer, soil nitrogen, and manure and sewage as the main nitrate sources in the Beiyun riverine watershed or the other similar complexed watersheds in the temperate regions. Thus, this study provides a scientific basis for nitrate source apportionment and nitrate pollution preventive management in watersheds with complexed land-use types in temperate regions.
